The President:
Hi, everybody.
A few days ago, I unveiled
a new national plan
to confront the growing threat
of a changing climate.
Decades of carefully reviewed
science tells us our planet
is changing in ways that
will have profound impacts
on the world we
leave our children.
Already we know that
the 12 warmest years
in recorded history
have all come
in the last 15,
and that last year was the
warmest in American history.
And while we know no
single weather event
is caused solely
by climate change,
we also know that,
in a world that's getting
warmer than it used to be,
all weather events
are affected by it --
more extreme droughts, floods,
wildfires, and hurricanes.
Those who already feel the
effects of a changing climate
don't have time to deny it.
They're busy
dealing with it --
the firefighters who brave
longer wildfire seasons;
the farmers who see crops
wilted one year
and washed away the next;
western families worried
about water that's drying up.
The costs of these events
can be measured
in lost lives and livelihoods,
lost homes and businesses,
and hundreds of billions
of dollars
in emergency services
and disaster relief.
And Americans across the country
are already paying the price
of inaction in
higher food costs,
insurance premiums,
and the tab for rebuilding.
So the question is not
whether we need to act;
the question is whether we
will have the courage to act
before it's too late.
The national climate
action plan I unveiled
will cut carbon pollution,
protect our country from
the impacts of climate change,
and lead the world
in a coordinated assault
on a changing climate.
To reduce carbon pollution,
I've directed the
Environmental Protection Agency
to work with states and
businesses to set new standards
that put an end to the limitless
dumping of carbon pollution
from our power plants.
We'll use more clean
energy and waste less energy
throughout our economy.
To prepare Americans
for the impact of climate change
we can't stop,
we'll work with
communities to build smarter,
more resilient infrastructure to
protect our homes and businesses
and withstand more
powerful storms.
And America will lead global
efforts to combat the threat
of a changing climate by
encouraging developing nations
to transition to cleaner
sources of energy
and by engaging our
international partners
in this fight.
For while we compete
for business,
we also share a planet,
and we must all shoulder
the responsibility
for its future together.
This is the fight America
can and will lead
in the 21st century,
but it will require all of us,
as citizens, to do our part.
We will need scientists
to design new fuels
and farmers to grow them.
We'll need engineers
to devise new technologies
and businesses to
make and sell them.
We'll need workers
to man assembly lines
that hum with high-tech
zero-carbon components
and builders to
hammer into place
the foundations for
a new clean-energy age.
We'll need to give
special care to people
in communities unsettled
by this transition.
And those of us in positions
of responsibility
will need to be less
concerned with the judgment
of special interests
and well-connected donors
and more concerned with
the judgment of our children.
If you agree with me,
I need you to act.
Educate your classmates
and colleagues,
your family and friends.
Speak up in your communities.
Remind everyone
who represents you,
at every level of government,
that there's no contradiction
between a sound environment
and a strong economy,
and that sheltering
future generations
against the ravages
of climate change
is a prerequisite
for your vote.
We will be judged as a people,
as a society,
and as a country on
where we go from here.
The plan I've put forward
to reduce carbon pollution
and protect our country from
the effects of climate change
is the path we need to take.
And if we remember
what's at stake,
the world we leave
to our children,
I'm convinced that this is a
challenge that we will meet.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.